[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations.
Have you ever been aware
of your sixth sense,
or you call it intuition,
or you call it just weird?
Do you tend to be sensitive?
Well, would you like to find
out some real practical tips
to be able to handle that
extrasensory awareness
so that you're not
bombarded by energies all day
so that you can function
in life?
Well, joining me is spiritual
teacher Sonia Choquette.
She's the author of over 19
international best-selling books
on intuitive healing
and personal growth.
Welcome. Thank you
for being here.
>> Sonia Choquette:
Thank you, Lisa.
I'm thrilled to be here.
>> Lisa: I'm so glad
that you're here.
>> Choquette: [Laughter].
>> Lisa: So how long
have you been teaching?
I know you've been teaching
workshops for a long time.
How long?
>> Choquette: Well, my
very first workshop was
over 40 years ago.
>> Lisa: 40?
>> Choquette: I was a kid,
but I've always had intuition.
It's always been in
the bones of my life.
I don't know what
it's like not to,
but I started doing intuitive
readings for people and realized
that they had been disconnected.
And it's like the worst
handicap you could have.
>> Lisa: And so what do you mean
that you always have
had intuition?
How did you know
it was intuition,
and it wasn't just weird or
scary or something freaky?
>> Choquette: Well, in my world,
it was never weird or scary
because I grew up in a family
where intuition was central
to our consciousness.
My mother would always
ask us to trust our vibes,
and what are we feeling,
because it was something
that was very paramount
to her life.
And so she created that for us,
and being one of seven kids,
I was very competitive.
I wanted my mother's
attention, so I get really good
at my vibes, and that
was one of the ways...
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: ...that I
was -- it was our game.
Who is on the phone?
Where are we going to park?
Where can we go find our picnic?
Where are my keys?
And so that was the
way we lived.
When I started school,
I realized other people had
somehow become disconnected
and to me, that was scary.
>> Lisa: They didn't
live that way.
>> Choquette: No.
It'd be like being
completely lost in the dark.
How could you live without
your intuition guiding you?
That would be like being in the
jungle at night with no light.
It would be crazy scary.
>> Lisa: But yet how does that
show up in people's lives,
living without their intuition?
>> Choquette: Well, they
get very tuned in to fear.
But just imagine,
for example, Lisa.
Have you ever been
in a blackout?
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Choquette: All of a sudden,
your whole body goes, uh!
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: You know.
>> Choquette: And you're scared.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: And so everything
becomes very threatening...
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: ...because you
don't know what's out there.
But when you have intuition,
it's like turning on the lights.
It's like giving you a sense of
your path, of the connections
of the way in which you are
in relationship to the world.
>> Lisa: Why do you
think we lose that?
I mean, most of us as kids
maybe do have that feeling,
but we're not identifying
it as clearly
as you had it identified.
But where do we lose it?
>> Choquette: We are all
born with a sixth sense
because it's your heart.
It is the first organ
in your body to develop,
way before your brain, way
before your other senses.
The second organ to develop
in your body is the cochlear,
the inner ear, and
those two pick up energy
and vibration, and
that informs us.
People don't know this but every
one of your physical senses goes
through the ear into the heart,
so your heart is your
guidance system, and we lose it
because we are conditioned --
the majority of the planet
has been conditioned to ignore
that inner wisdom, but
we all start out with it.
>> Lisa: It's interesting
because you think
about a baby in a womb.
They can pick up the
feelings of the mother.
>> Choquette: Very much so.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: And they
are hearing everything.
We are very conscious, and your
heart is a very intelligent,
very informing organ.
>> Lisa: How did
intuition guide you
on your most recent pilgrimage?
>> Choquette: Well, I'd
been married very young
to the same man, and we
had two beautiful kids,
but our relationship was
always a very challenged one.
>> Lisa: How did you
-- how old were you?
>> Choquette: I was 22 when
I got married, and we're both
from large Catholic families.
He was the oldest of
his Catholic clan;
I was the middle child with
a lot of older brothers,
so Patrick and I had a
lot of combative moments.
And I just hung in
there and hung in there,
and finally we just
reached gridlock,
and two years ago we separated,
and it was quite
shattering to me.
>> Lisa: Wow, after 28 years.
>> Choquette: Yeah,
and it was hard
because as a spiritual
teacher and as an intuitive,
this wasn't supposed to happen
to me, and yet I came to realize
that I'm also human, and I
have the same human experiences
as everyone else.
My intuition -- and I was
just such in such grief
and such confusion -- my
intuition one day just said,
walk the Camino, which is
a pilgrimage across Spain.
It's an 840 kilometer
pilgrimage by foot.
And it made no sense.
It invited me to walk
away from my life,
unplug from all my
responsibilities,
just let everything
go, shut it down,
and knowing my intuition is
so reliable, I said okay.
>> Lisa: To go on a 550
mile walk across Spain...
>> Choquette: By myself.
>> Lisa: ...a couple months ago.
>> Choquette: Yes,
I went in May,
and when I went,
it was May-June.
I thought it would be
warm, this is nice.
The very second day that
I was there, it snowed.
>> Lisa: In May?
>> Choquette: In May,
and it was freezing.
In fact, a woman who went the
day after me died from the cold.
It was really intense.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: Yeah,
a Canadian woman.
It was very sad.
>> Lisa: My goodness.
We have a picture here
of you at the beginning.
This is probably the
first day [laughter].
My goodness.
>> Choquette: Just
happy to go up and...
>> Lisa: So did you
camp, backpack?
How does...
>> Choquette: I backpacked,
but I didn't camp.
I stayed in hostels that are
just positioned along the way,
and you just follow
these yellow arrows,
and it went over two mountain
ranges across a huge expanse
of plains where just
long, long --
all you did was walk,
think, pray.
>> Lisa: Listen.
>> Choquette: Listen.
>> Lisa: In the hostels you
stayed at, were they accustomed
to having pilgrimage
people walk in?
>> Choquette: Right, everybody
who comes are pilgrims,
so people were prepared and
they were mostly very loving
and gracious, and
you're just exhausted.
You get in, and here was
an interesting thing.
You eat dinner around 8, 8:30 in
Spain, but I'd arrive around 5,
and I'd pass out until
the next morning.
I was exhausted...
>> Lisa: Oh, wow.
>> Choquette: ...for the
first couple weeks at least,
almost 2 1/2 weeks I'd just...
>> Lisa: How many miles
a day did you walk?
>> Choquette: Well, I
walked 30 kilometers,
which is about 22 miles.
>> Lisa: A day?
>> Choquette: But it was up
and down and up and down.
Yeah, it was hard.
I don't how I made it.
>> Lisa: You almost
walked a marathon a day.
>> Choquette: Yes, pretty much,
a marathon a day for 33 days.
>> Lisa: And did
your feet get sore?
Did you get blisters?
>> Choquette: Destroyed.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
I never got a blister, but
I ruined all of my toenails.
I got what's called boot bang,
which is when your toes hit the
front of your boots going down,
so on day 3, I had
trashed all my toenails,
and I was in so much pain.
And then I got nerve damage
on my arches of my feet.
I was, like, crawling.
>> Lisa: Why did you continue?
What inspired you to?
>> Choquette: My spirit.
I had to. I had to continue
because for whatever was hurting
my feet, my heart was healing.
My past was dropping
off like barnacles,
and I was learning the power of
listening and honoring my spirit
and beginning to see
everything with such compassion
and forgiveness that
I didn't want to stop.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
You just wanted to find out
what the next day brought,
and the next day?
>> Choquette: I would--
I never knew.
It brought up things clear
from my past lives, guides.
I'd suffered -- before
my marriage broke up,
my brother died in his sleep.
Perfectly fine.
He had artery in his
heart or something,
and the shock killed my
father six weeks later.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: So it was first
my brother, then my father.
That threw me, and
then my marriage.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Choquette: So I
was pretty shattered.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: And...
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: ...and confused,
and I just wanted to heal.
I just wanted to be
connected to my spirit.
I was listening to my guides.
I was healing my grief,
and I was healing my karma.
It was pretty wild.
>> Lisa: Well, you got --
the message was sent up to the
universe, because then you woke
up the next day to snow, and
-- well, these are actually --
this is a picture here that we
have of the beautiful woods.
Is this the path?
>> Choquette: That
was part of the path,
and it was very mystical.
You know, when -- the
Camino is like stepping
out of ordinary time and space.
>> Lisa: Into another time.
>> Choquette: Into another
dimension, another frequency.
>> Lisa: Really?
>> Choquette: Thousands of
year's people walking this path
in prayer creates a
vibration that is so --
it's like clear mirror.
>> Lisa: Oh, so it's
not a regular walk?
>> Choquette: No, it's not.
It's not. It was -- in fact,
this is a quick story I
want to share with you.
I had a troubled
relationship with my father.
It was not necessarily a
good one when I was young,
and just crazy, but I forgive
my father and had compassion.
And in the middle
of the trip one day,
I have these walking gloves,
and I woke, and my father used
to always flip me pennies,
and he would say, "Remember.
In God we trust."
That was just one of my father's
things, and one day I woke up
and on my gloves was a penny.
>> Lisa: Just magically.
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: He was...
>> Lisa: Wow, he was
right there with you.
>> Choquette: ...right there.
He was right there, as one
of many of the magical,
out-of-this-world, not of the
third dimension experiences,
and it was very fluent
and on the Camino.
The third dimension, the fourth,
the fifth dimension, the spirit.
It was all very fluent, so
you've walked in a lot of grace.
>> Lisa: And in your state of
silence, was it better for you
to let go of the words and
the busyness and the thoughts
and the texting and the
phones, and all of that?
>> Choquette: I had
to do that, Lisa.
My world has always
been talking,
guiding, teaching, writing.
I needed to unplug from all
of that, and just listen.
There was a day I walked
where the birds were so loud,
I felt like I was being sung
to by birds for eight hours.
>> Lisa: [Laughter] Wow.
>> Choquette: And it was
like, you guys are loud.
This is amazing, you know.
It's just a crazy experience.
>> Lisa: That's so neat, though.
>> Choquette: It was so great.
>> Lisa: Because, I mean they're
probably always that loud,
but we just have so much
noise that overrides them.
>> Choquette: Exactly, exactly.
>> Lisa: If it's out --
extraneous noise or the
noise in our own head.
>> Choquette: Between the two,
but I walked long
enough, it both got quiet.
>> Lisa: Beautiful.
So then you woke up to
this early morning frost.
>> Choquette: That was snow,
and you know the interesting
thing is it had been raining,
turned to snow, so the walk
was mud, and it went clear
up to my, you know, shins.
My feet were in mud and muck,
and it wasn't just
mud like slush.
It was like clay mud.
>> Lisa: Heavy.
>> Choquette: So I
would put my feet in
and it would suck my boots off,
and it was just ridiculous.
It was just ridiculous, and
I fell in it up to my...
>> Lisa: Oh, my God.
>> Choquette: It was just silly.
>> Lisa: Did you meet -- did
you find anyone out there?
>> Choquette: Well,
people walked.
I mean, some days I
walked I didn't see a soul.
A lot of days I didn't
see a soul.
A lot of days I saw people,
and we would acknowledge one
another, but it's understood
that you generally
are pretty private.
I saw the world.
There's every nation
is on there.
I saw the world.
Australia to New Zealand,
Thailand, Japanese,
Argentineans, French, Mexicans.
Every country.
Canadians.
Every country, so I
walked with the world.
>> Lisa: Did -- well, I wanted
to show people the path.
So it just goes on
forever, right?
>> Choquette: It seemed like it.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette.
There were days when
that it's like,
why am I doing this
is [laughter]?
>> Lisa: Were there?
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: Especially
this particular slide.
This is a meseta, and
there's not a lot of green.
It's just trees and shade.
It's just walking, so
it's either pouring rain.
It's the worst weather in
hundred years when I walked.
>> Lisa: Just in that
week -- or month?
>> Choquette: In that
month, and it was --
many days it just poured
rain, and wind would not stop,
and cold, and there were
days when it was sunny.
It was never hot,
but when you're
in the sun walking nine hours
and you have nowhere,
you know, no place...
>> Lisa: No shade.
>> Choquette: No shade,
and no place to --
you just keep walking.
So pretty much I
walked out of everything
that wasn't worth carrying.
Everything.
>> Lisa: Including
all of your...
>> Choquette: Grief, grievances,
resentments, angers, wounding,
victimhood, confusion, karma.
>> Lisa: And what did you
intuit that is happening
in our world right now?
Did you tune in to that,
or was it mostly about you?
>> Choquette: Absolutely.
Well, it was a personal healing
journey, but two-thirds into it,
I realized, we're not alone, and
every single person who works
to raise their vibration,
to open their heart,
to listen to their guidance,
to trust their spirit,
has a huge impact on
helping the ones around them.
We help each other
just by living
in our own authentic flow,
and I, you know, at one point,
I didn't talk to anybody, and
by the end of it, I had friends.
People knew me and
we were friends,
and so your consciousness
travels
and we affect one another, and
I came back even more committed
than ever to the messages
I've always been teaching.
But...
>> Lisa: Which are?
>> Choquette: ...trust
your spirit, you know,
listen to your guidance,
remember who you are.
Don't look for yourself
out here, and don't believe
that the world is
a horrible place.
It's not. Most
of the horribleness
is from here to here.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: And
we project it out.
>> Lisa: Now, in your
travels, did you come
in tighter connection with
guides, like spirit guides, and?
>> Choquette: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: This picture -- the
next one's great, is you and --
here's one of your main
guides, which is yourself.
>> Choquette: Yeah, that's my
higher self, and took that.
I was like, look, I am so grown.
I took the picture with my
camera right in my heart,
because I was like, look,
there is my higher self,
and really I was
like 12 feet tall.
But I felt, I know, it's truth
that our spirits are huge,
humongous, profound,
trustworthy, powerful.
>> Lisa: But what
about outside guides?
Or are they the same?
>> Choquette: Oh, yes.
I had outside guides
all the time.
My room at night was
filled with guides.
This particular path also was
guarded by the Knights Templar,
and the Knights Templar, I've
had many, many past lives
in the Knight -- one
of the Knights Templar.
Many dreams.
I've written about it
in my very first book.
>> Lisa: Tell us who
the Knights Templar are.
>> Choquette: The Knights
Templar were a group of Knights
who were formed to protect
the pilgrims originally to go
to Jerusalem, but they
had discovered the bones
of Saint James, so this
became a second pilgrimage.
It was the second
biggest pilgrimage
in middle -- medieval times.
>> Lisa: On the Camino?
>> Choquette: On the Camino.
So there's a castle
there, and there's -
the Templars were
all along there,
and I knew that I had karma,
and the Templars were
not necessarily --
they were a very rigid group
of monks who were warriors,
and they were -- they ran
the first banks and money,
and they were very severe
in their own disciplines.
And some of them became fairly
corrupt, and they were all --
the reason October 13 is such
a dark day is because the King
of France at the time owed them
money, couldn't pay them back,
so we had them all
slaughtered on October 13.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Choquette: I know
I have karma.
I had karma with that,
and so part of walking this
Camino cleared that karma, too.
>> Lisa: Because it
felt so real to you?
>> Choquette: So real,
and I would wake up
and my room would be filled
with the Knights in my room,
and they would be, like,
manifesting before me.
>> Lisa: Seeing them
for real?
>> Choquette: Yes, and I would
hear their chanting as I walked,
and then I would be walking with
them, and they were chanting,
and so this was really --
told a wild ride for me.
I mean, I was working
on every dimension.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
>> Choquette: But I
realized we need to know
that we have guides,
that we need to know
that it is too frightening
to our human egos
to face the challenges
of the human experience
which can be very,
very challenging
and at times very painful
because we cannot avoid loss.
We cannot.
>> Lisa: We can't, right.
>> Choquette: And our guides
help us get through that.
>> Lisa: And they are there.
>> Choquette: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: You call on your guides
when you need them the most.
>> Choquette: We tend
to call on our guides
when we have exhausted
all our other resources.
>> Lisa: [Laughter]
Right, right.
>> Choquette: Unfortunately.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: But I've
always worked with my guides,
and they have always
been there and, you know,
Hollywood makes us inclined
to expect Elvis to manifest
or shake and rattle and
roll, but guides are
like butterfly wings
on your cheek.
They're a wave of aha.
They're a gentle knowing
that is so settled
that our minds go,
wait a minute.
That wasn't real.
>> Lisa: And sometimes
discounts.
>> Choquette: We are so
used to discounting it,
but if we just began to
notice and say, hmm, maybe.
Okay. And we open it up.
All we have to do is
give it voice, just --
if you just give voice to what
these subtle feelings are.
You don't have to listen, you
don't have to believe.
Just give them voice.
>> Lisa: I have a piece
here where you teach
about your guide, about
looking for your guide.
Let's take a look at this
piece here by Sonia Choquette.
[ Music and Video ]
>> Choquette: When you learn
to begin to work with guides,
it's a very exciting and
dynamic experience because it's
like opening yourself up
into a whole new universe,
and I created the
astroguides audio
so that I could give you a
guided tour of that universe,
and help point out to
you these subtle energies
that are available
to support you.
And it's wonderful to
listen to it on audio
because maybe then you
can put it on your iPod
and we can go outside, or we
can kind of go explore together
and really begin to experience
guidance in the moment.
So it's a wonderful supplement
to my book, Ask Your Guides,
and it helps develop an
energetic sensitivity.
You know, when I'm working with
you, my guides are speaking
through me so you'll begin to
sense the different nuances
of vibration, and the different
tones, and the different feeling
that each guide has,
and it's very exciting.
It's like the difference between
learning about the piano,
and learning to play the piano,
and it's just really
very exciting.
It kind of gives you a hands-on
experience of involving yourself
with the subtle realms in a way
that will only make your life
easier and more beautiful.
[ Music ]
>> Lisa: So let me
ask you a question.
Looking at that, which you
probably recorded before
your pilgrimage.
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: Do you see a
different Sonia in that video?
>> Choquette: I see
a younger Sonia,
but I don't mean age-wise.
I see that the Sonia I am now is
everything that I'm saying there
on steroids [laughter].
Like what I would
say there, I --
it's like I was snorkeling
in the ocean and saying look
at these fish, and now I'm
deep-sea diving and going,
look at these fish [laughter]!
>> Lisa: Oh, cool.
I kind of shocked you
with that question, but...
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: I'd like to know.
>> Choquette: Yeah.
Everything there and more so.
>> Lisa: So you've
grown so much.
>> Choquette: I think so.
>> Lisa: Even in your original
teachings that are so great
that we're going to learn
more about and intuition,
I just wanted to get
your experience now.
Now, this was, continuing
on the journey here back
to the pilgrimage, and
these are great stories
about it [laughter].
What other types of
experiences did you have
that you remember?
>> Choquette: Oh, I
have a great story.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Choquette: And one
that's so good because by --
it was the last three
days of the pilgrimage.
I had only three days left.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: And I
had met two young men
that were just so negative.
They had just shown up.
They were only doing the
last hundred kilometers,
and they were from Ireland, and
they were awful, and I had been
in such a serene state.
And they showed up,
and they were talking
about the government and
American and politics
and rip-offs, and everything
was just shocking my system.
So I said to them, I need to --
it was at dinner, and I said,
I love you and I need to walk
away from this conversation
because I'm in a really clear
state, and it's disturbing me.
And it's not personal, and
I'm not even arguing with you,
I'm just saying I can't
be present to this.
And they were angry, probably
felt a little bit like,
who do you think you are?
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: How could I?
Very annoyed with me,
like how pompous of me,
you know, and na na na.
And so I went to my
room and I journaled.
I said, you know, everything
on the Camino matters.
I wonder why I ran
into two dark angels.
So the next morning I saw them
and they gave me dirty looks
and ignored me, and the next
morning, I was having breakfast.
I didn't see them, and
I needed to get going.
I had overslept and so
I took off and I walked
for maybe four hours,
and I sat down to --
at a caf, and I was
going to get a coke
because I needed energy.
And I realized when I sat down
I left my purse, my passport,
my credit cards, my ticket
home, all my money, everything.
I walked away from it,
and I didn't know where.
I did not know where, and it was
like panic, and it's all Spanish
and nobody speaks Spanish,
and who comes walking down?
My two dark angels.
>> Lisa: Oh, no.
>> Choquette: And the first
thing he said is what happened?
And I said I lost my purse.
I don't know where, and one
of them whips out his iPhone,
he's all over it, he's
Googling everything.
The other one speaks Spanish,
Google's all the way
back, calls everybody.
They find it.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
>> Choquette: Somebody had
it in one of the little --
somebody found it turned
it in, and they sent it
to where I was walking to.
Bought me a cup of
coffee, and I was like,
"You are my Camino angels."
And he said, "Nobody's ever
called me an angel before."
And I said, "Well, I called
you a dark angel two days ago,
but now, I have blueprints
for me.
You transformed me."
And I was so grateful.
I was just sobbing from relief.
It's like don't ever
judge anyone.
You never know.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: Don't
every judge anyone.
It was -- anyone.
>> Lisa: What a great story.
>> Choquette: Isn't
that a wild story?
Yeah.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
So, I mean, this was just one of
the lessons that came through.
>> Choquette: One of so many.
>> Lisa. So give
me the visual of --
I mean, I know we have
this great picture here
of the actual trail, but when
you would come to these towns,
does the trail wrap
in the towns?
>> Choquette: You follow little
shells and you follow arrows,
and they come to little villages
and sometimes there
are a little bit --
couple cities along the
way, or little nothingness.
It goes -- it -- the spectrum.
You just keep following.
Like Blue's Clues.
You just keep following
the yellow arrows.
>> Lisa: Yeah, and
then people --
thousands and thousands have
gone through this trail before,
but people know when
you show up, you're on.
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: And do they
take care of you, or?
>> Choquette: They're kind.
You, you know, you
just go to bed.
You eat and get up and go.
>> Lisa: It talks about
self-motivation now.
It's great, though.
>> Choquette: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I was really a very powerful,
intuitive journey for me.
>> Lisa: Now, what about
your family, your daughters?
>> Choquette: I just
-- I left them all,
and just said I need
this for me.
They cheered me on.
They met me in -- at the end of
it, I was teaching in Vienna,
and one met me there, and
the next week I was teaching
in Croatia, and the
other one met me there.
And then we all had a nice
healing experience in Paris
after that, so it
was quite a journey.
Quite a journey, and it was
very intuitive the whole way.
>> Lisa: So did you heal any
part of your relationship
with your daughters
while you were...
>> Choquette: Absolutely.
>> Lisa: In what way?
>> Choquette: Well, you know,
I do know that as a family,
human beings, we
go through a lot,
we put each other through a lot.
The human growth
experience is tough.
To learn to come
back to yourself,
to get over your patterns,
to get through your fears,
to go through on a learning
curve, you are not in a bubble.
You are affecting everyone.
The canoe -- it's like
you're on the same canoe.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: And I just had
nothing but gratitude for them
in my life, and asked
their absolute forgiveness
for everything I had ever
done to cause them pain,
and was grateful that
they were willing to.
Of course they were willing
to extend that, but the depth
of that gift to me as a
mother, I was so grateful.
>> Lisa: In your experience
as a spiritual teacher going
through life as conscious
as you possibly can be,
what hurt could you
have imposed upon them?
And the only reason
I'm asking this is
because it is the human
beings experience to grow,
so whatever their experience
was, they were going to grow
if you were a banker...
>> Choquette: Right.
>> Lisa. ...or if you
were a spiritual teacher.
They were going to
choose and then grow.
>> Choquette: Nevertheless,
the human spirit is sensitive.
No matter how resilient
we are, and we can all go
to the higher arc that says
we're all here for our lessons.
It doesn't alleviate the fact
that as we're learning
our lessons,
we step on each other's toes,
we hurt each other's feelings.
>> Lisa: Not on purpose.
>> Choquette: We
scare each other.
Never on purpose, but that
doesn't mean we don't say I'm
sorry, at least for me.
I'm so sorry.
>> Lisa: Did you leave
your ego or anything
that was left of
it on that trail?
>> Choquette: I'll tell you
what I learned: nothing.
Nothing good comes of the ego.
Nothing. Never.
Nothing. So, I have an ego,
and I -- it comes and goes,
and I'm amused by it when it's
behaving, and I am very mindful
when it swears up, and I
know that if I give that part
of me importance, nothing
good will come of it.
And I am acutely aware
of it all the time.
I'm just listening
for my spirit.
for my inner teacher.
I'm just listening for
God's grace, all the time.
>> Lisa: Well, this next photo
we have here is a beautiful
photo of you with
your certificate.
So you get a certificate
at the end of this?
>> Choquette: Yeah, and
your name's in Latin,
and it says that you walked
the Camino, and it's...
>> Lisa: Who gives
you the certificate?
>> Choquette: You get it
from the Catholic Church.
If you walked a Catholic Camino,
you get what's called a
Compostela, which is the --
says that you walked the
pilgrimage of forgiveness.
It is the way of forgiveness.
>> Lisa: Oh, so, and are
there signs along the way to,
like, passages to read, or?
>> Choquette: No,
no, but you get a --
you have a passport and you
get it stamped every day.
Wherever you go, you get a
little Pilgrim stamp in it
that says I've been
here and here,
so it just shows you've been
-- you've walked the walk.
>> Lisa: Who gives
you the stamp?
>> Choquette: Wherever you stay,
the hostel that you stay in.
There's a tourist
agency, or if a church.
I got many -- I went
into the churches,
and you get your little
stamp, and it's a little book
that I'm very proud of.
>> Lisa: Oh, my goodness.
That's probably a
beautiful little book.
>> Choquette: Oh, it's such
a wonderful memoir for me.
>> Lisa: Treasure, I'm sure.
How will this journey in your
life, and I'm so grateful
to be interviewing you right
off of that, just a couple
of months ago when
you came home.
How will this impact
your teachings?
>> Choquette: A great deal.
I feel like I'm a good
teacher, and I always feel
like I've been a good teacher.
I am really able to
break down intuition
and help rewire people
back into the flow,
but I feel what will
change is a deeper message
about the importance of being
present, of moving energy,
not sitting, not
thinking, not even trying
to just meditate,
but move energy.
>> Lisa: Really move energy.
>> Choquette: Move
it out of your body,
and to open that
space to forgiveness,
compassion, and humor.
It's really not -- I
always would teach dancing.
I'd always teach movement,
but now I understand
that if you move
with some commitment,
you can move your history,
you can move your karma,
you can move your wounds,
you can move your grief.
>> Lisa: Yeah, you've
really deepened
that level of your teaching.
>> Choquette: Yeah,
that is true,
and I know that to be true,
and I want to empower people
with that understanding.
We're such a heavy culture, and
I think -- and so left brain,
and that's such a problem
for us as spiritual beings
because we're in wrong
neighborhood [laughter].
>> Lisa: Interesting.
How has it changed
your life, or impacting
about how you live
your live currently?
>> Choquette: Well, I don't
think about the past anymore.
It's over.
I live very much in
the present, 100%.
I don't think much about
the future anymore.
It's not here yet.
I am very invested in
creating a beautiful today,
and my heart is very happy.
>> Lisa: How do you plan for...
>> Choquette: I make
commitments, but I don't think
about them until I show up.
I can make a commitment.
I can set an intention,
but I don't think about it.
I don't plan what I'm going
to say or do or, you know.
>> Lisa: You still set your
2014, 2015, whatever, goals?
>> Choquette: Sure.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Choquette: I set my calendar.
I set my intentions, and
I always say I'm open
to however that will unfold.
I listen for my guidance,
and I'll live moment
to moment knowing,
and going from here
to there, but I'll listen.
I'll follow my intuition.
I'll listen for my spirit.
I'll listen to guidance, because
my plans might be limited.
Maybe I'll have some
new guidance
in the moment along the way.
>> Lisa: Did you get
the sense of experience
that our times are changing,
are shifting, are speeding up?
>> Choquette: Absolutely, and
part of what I want to say
to people is don't be afraid of
anything, and consider the value
of being a timeless person.
That's the other thing.
I feel like I've
stepped out of time.
I'm not going to be
pushed around by time.
It's a concept, too.
>> Lisa: What do
you mean by that?
>> Choquette: Well, you know,
we're always hurry up, hurry up,
get going, or slow down, slow
down, you're going to miss it,
or be young, or don't
grow older.
It's all of these
time constrictions
that keep managing our
lives and fear, so.
>> Lisa: They're limiting.
>> Choquette: Very, and
they take time, you know,
that I feel -- I
want to stretch time.
To be fearful about time
collapses your time,
and it makes you feel
like you have to hurry up,
or it's running out,
but I tend to live now
from a timeless paradigm.
>> Lisa: Wonderful place?
>> Choquette: Yeah.
>> Lisa: We're going to
take a look at a video here
that Sonia did about
tuning in her latest book.
Let's take a look.
>> Choquette: Hi, I'm Sonia
Choquette, inviting you
to read my brand-new book,
Tune In: Follow Your Intuition
to Fulfillment and Flow.
In my book, I teach
you how to awaken
and live your most
authentic empowered life.
It happens in four phases.
The first phase is what
I call the wake-up call,
and this happens when you've
experienced a sudden disruption
to your life, whether
it might be an accident,
or you lose your job,
or a relationship ends.
Or it could actually even
be something more subtle,
like just a disease
or an unhappiness
that you can't shake, causing
you to begin to go inward
and start listening
to a part of yourself
that maybe you've been
ignoring for a long time.
That leads you to
the second phase,
which I call digging deep.
In this phase, you actually
begin to hear and feel
and sense your inner
voice, your inner guidance,
which really is the voice
of your authentic self.
That's what your intuition is.
But you're not sure.
You're not confident, so you
start looking for validation,
reassurance, you make -- go to
the Internet and read articles
on intuition, or read books,
or begin to introduce the
conversation with your friends.
But what you're really looking
for in this phase is permission
to begin to live from an inner
authority, your inner voice,
your inner teacher, intuition.
Gathering all that up leads
us to the third phase,
which is called taking the leap,
because no matter what you feel
or how much evidence you get
that you should trust what you
feel until you actually act
on it, nothing's going
to change in your life.
But when you begin
to take the leap
of following your inner
voice, your authentic self,
this natural guidance
system that you have,
life begins to shift
very dramatically
and in a very positive way.
People have asked me, well,
am I leaping into the void?
It scares them, but what
I want you to know is
that you're not leaping
out there.
You're taking a leap back
into your own authentic power.
And when you do that you
enter the fourth phase,
which is this very incredible,
magical shift called
entering the flow.
When you enter the flow, it's
your inner self guiding you.
You're not thinking,
you're not figuring out.
You're actually just
following your impulses,
sort of like surfing,
dancing with life,
but you end up experiencing
a graceful transformation,
synchronicities, one after the
other, right place, right time,
opportunities open up,
people begin to support you,
things that you never even
dreamed possible begin,
very easily land on your feet.
And so this whole process is
what is available to all of us,
and it's the natural
way we are all moving.
So I invite you to
read the book.
I encourage you to
tune in and begin
to trust your most
authentic, empowered self.
[ Music ]
>> Lisa: This is -- you're of
course teaching about tuning in
and going with the flow and all
of that you did while
you were on your journey.
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: And I just feel
the need to ask you so much
about this pilgrimage
because it takes such a leap
of faith to go and to do.
>> Choquette: Yes, it did.
>> Lisa: But it also has
to have a really big why.
>> Choquette: Not for me.
>> Lisa: No?
>> Choquette: See, when
I, living by my guidance,
why is an intellectual question,
and I don't listen
to my intellect much.
I just said okay, and had no --
and that's pretty
much how I live.
>> Lisa: Have you always
known about the Camino?
>> Choquette: No.
I had read -- a long time ago,
I read Shirley Maclean's book,
and thought, all right.
You know, it didn't -- it
wasn't something that stuck.
I enjoyed it, but it
wasn't -- so -- and then...
>> Lisa: What was her book?
>> Choquette: The Camino.
>> Lisa: Oh, okay.
>> Choquette: So then two or
three people in the course
of the maybe year and a
half before I went had shown
up in my life in various places.
One in Australia, one in
Chicago, and I'm not sure
where the third, and they said,
"You have to go on the Camino."
And it was like, I do, but
I didn't really say I will.
It was like okay.
That feels right.
>> Lisa: Oh, so your
intuition said yes.
>> Choquette: So
then I went speaking
at the first global conference
on human spirituality,
and I was very conflicted
why I was there.
I was in so much personal
turmoil, and I spoke,
and I got to the airport
and sat in my seat,
and I clicked my buckle,
and I heard it so loud,
"Walk the Camino, and go alone."
And I went, okay, okay.
So I went home, and that
was in December, a year ago,
and I said to my
business partner Ryan,
I'm going on a pilgrimage.
And he thought I was crazy
because I had just --
I was taking kickboxing to try
to move some of my own energy
in a different way and
some of my frustrations,
and I'd broken my knee.
>> Lisa: Ow.
>> Choquette: And I was just
coming out of a wheelchair
after five months in a
wheelchair, so he said,
"You're going to walk five
hundred and some miles
across a country
with your knee?"
And I said, "I'm going to try.
I've got the guidance
to do that, so I'm going
to do it, and we'll see."
And that's how I
live with guidance.
I don't ask many questions.
>> Lisa: You trust it that much.
>> Choquette: I trust
it absolutely.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: And
it's never, ever,
ever been a problem for me.
>> Lisa: Never wrong.
>> Choquette: Never.
Years ago I was told
to go to France,
and I had $500 in my pocket.
I got the guidance to
go to France and ended
up with a five year
scholarship to the Sorbonne.
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Choquette: It works
out, and my point is
that that's not exclusive to me.
The universe is that generous
if you'll just say yes.
>> Lisa: But you've been doing
this for 40 years with guides
and working with your
intuition and teaching about it.
>> Choquette: Well, you
know, Lisa, it's like this.
It's not like you have
to build the Taj Mahal.
You just have to
turn on the light,
and it's hardwired in you.
>> Lisa: You just
start somewhere.
>> Choquette: So I teach
people to turn on the light,
and it works, so it's
not a matter of you
to create a relationship
with it to work.
You begin to create a dynamic
so you have enough experience
that you think this works,
and you feel so good.
Your whole energy expands,
so it's not a mental effort.
It's a -- you relax
into because it's
like putting a key in a lock.
It clicks; it opens.
>> Lisa: So do you distinguish
that voice of your intuition
from maybe just a hunch
or something that you...
>> Choquette: Wishful
thinking, for example?
>> Lisa: Yeah, right.
>> Choquette: Well, when I teach
to listen to their intuition,
one of the tools that
I have is so essential.
Every time you get a
gut feeling, a hunch,
an aha, say it out loud.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Choquette: Because intuition
comes up from the heart
to the throat to the
ear, and you can hear
if the vibration is
resonant with your essence.
>> Lisa: That's why it helps
so much to talk it out.
>> Choquette: Right.
You can't actually be
as effective trying
to figure it out.
You won't succeed.
>> Lisa: Too many
voices [laughter]?
>> Choquette: Too many voices.
You won't be able to
distinguish, but the sound
of your own voice will let you
know, and that is hitting home,
ringing true, if it feels
correct for you in the moment.
>> Lisa: And do you call your
intuition and information
from your guides the same thing?
>> Choquette: It's
the same channel.
It's your inner teacher.
It's like -- your intuition
is like the radio station,
just like Gaiam has a
station that broadcasts,
and so it's the station
that pulls in higher self,
your guides, your
angels, all broadcast
through this heart-based
station.
And so it opens a spectrum
of and a variety of guidance
that you can begin, just
like flavors in a recipe.
You can begin once you
start to become familiar.
You can start to
distinguish them.
>> Lisa: So you said
earlier that to go
on the pilgrimage alone, when
you click that belt, why alone?
>> Choquette: Well, at the time,
that would be if I had any kind
of a question, but I don't
pursue those questions.
I didn't know.
I would've preferred
-- my more human,
vulnerable Sonia would've
preferred to go with someone.
I'm a go with someone
kind of person.
I'm a middle child of seven.
I'm a hang in there.
But now I can see that
especially as an intuitive
and a sensitive, my energy
is often scanning and picking
up not just my own experience,
but the experience
of those around me.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: So the wisdom
of go alone is genius.
I was able to tune into
exclusively my own energy,
and I -- that is not a
very common thing for me.
I'm always picking up.
That's my work.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Choquette: That is my life
to pick up and tune clear
across the world just on a phone
call or a Skype, I can dial-in,
like a canary in the coal mine.
So go alone.
It was hugely healing for me.
>> Lisa: Oh, there's
that new one.
So for people who are
watching this and curious
about doing this, and maybe
thinking about doing it
on their own, would you
recommend to go alone?
>> Choquette: I would recommend
if you really do need to go
with someone or feel like
you don't want to go quite
that adventurous, at least
walking during the day,
walk alone.
Meet up at night, or walk
a good part of it alone
where you're not just
talking and staying
in your same mental frequency.
You'll miss something, and I did
have the company in the evenings
of other pilgrims, and some
of them had a very
different experience.
There were people drink
their way across, you know,
and they had a very
different Camino.
There were people went in
groups and argued and fought.
They had a very different
Camino.
You can create the quality
of Camino of your pilgrimage.
I had a beautiful experience
because of that quiet.
>> Lisa: Amazing.
Well, did you create alters
for yourself out there,
because I know you teach
a lot about alters.
Did carry one with you?
>> Choquette: I did.
I do carry an altar
with me and, you know,
there's churches along the way
that are from medieval times,
and they are so incredible,
so I got to see these
beautiful alters.
And an interesting thing
is in the Catholic Church,
there's mostly the
Jesus on the cross,
but in these churches it was
always Mary holding the Christ.
It was very feminine and very
nurturing and very beautiful,
and that surprised me.
>> Lisa: Yeah, that's a
wonderful distinction.
>> Choquette: And
there are places
where people created
alters with stones,
so I tried to create an
altar pretty much every day,
and prayed every day,
and listened every day.
But I also have a little
altar that I take with me,
and in it I have my
pictures of my family,
and I have found some
talismans from my life,
something from India
which is very dear to me,
and some of my rosaries
from a childhood.
And I have a prayer
book I've always carried
and write my own prayers,
and I carry Gumby.
Gumby's my totem, my joy
guide, so Gumby was part of --
Gumby rode with me on my
backpack right in the front.
>> Lisa: [Laughter] Oh, did he?
>> Choquette: Yes.
>> Lisa: That's great.
>> Choquette: So, yes.
Alters are portals...
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Choquette: ...to
the subtle realms,
and that's why they're
so powerful.
They take us out of our
conscious third dimensional
focus, and open us
to making contact.
>> Lisa: How interesting.
>> Choquette: It's a more
beautiful, subtle realm
so that are available that
want to make contact with us.
>> Lisa: I'd love to learn how
to use them a little bit more.
There's a video here I
want you to take a look
at that Sonia talks
about alters,
and then we'll find
out how to use them.
>> Choquette: Hi, I'm Sonia
Choquette, and I'm here today
to share with you the
importance and the richness
of creating a personal altar.
Just like alters are the focal
point for spiritual contact
in churches and mosques
and temples, they also have
that same value for you if
you bring one into your home.
And in fact, alters were in
people's homes over many,
many millennia and in most
parts of the world today.
So it's not an unusual thing.
To create an alter is simple.
All you need to do is
bring together the things
that uplift your heart
and help you make contact
with your divine nature,
with God, with source,
with spirit guides, with
whatever opens and expands
and helps you feel your
greater connection with life.
This is my Catholic altar
because I was raised Catholic
and I still have a lot of real
deep connection with that.
This is my Buddhist altar.
This is around the Goddess Tara,
and around this alter I have
collected Mollison prayer beads
from around the world, and so
I'll sit in front of this alter
and use them to pray
and meditate.
Back here I have a little
tiny altar that's full
of little Indian gods, and a
stone that was very special
to me that I collected
on my travels.
And make it small
because it doesn't have
to be a big deal
to create an altar.
You just bring together some
things that lift you up.
I even made an alter
once on a napkin
as I traveled just
putting flowers and petals
and pictures of people I love.
So whatever works for you, the
idea is that it's a focal point
where you can make contact with
God, with a source, with spirit,
with your heart, and
all good things in life,
and it's a very enriching
thing to create
and visit in your home.
So I hope you do that, and
I wish you all my love.
>> Lisa: So how do we do that?
Do you invoke different
types of energies,
or you just look at the altar?
How do you do that?
>> Choquette: Well, you know,
an invocation is
actually to call in.
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Choquette: So you sit
down and you just call
in whatever your
spiritual construct is.
If it's, you know, Allah,
or God, or Mother Mary,
or your higher self.
>> Lisa: The guides or whatever.
>> Choquette: Or
guides, whatever.
What you're really doing
is you're actually shifting
out of your left brain into
your heart and opening to being,
to making contact,
to say influence me,
and your reaching
at the same time.
You know, if you think
of that Sistine Chapel,
Michelangelo touching the hand
of God, that's kind of like
when you work with your
alter, you're just reaching
for the higher self
to reach you.
And you can sit for a minute.
You can light a candle, a
little water, just a prayer,
just put your hand there.
It can be as long or short.
>> Lisa: If you're,
say, not feeling well
or you have an illness or
something, do you use those?
>> Choquette: I would
say light a candle there.
Maybe it did say I need
some help, and just sit,
just pause for a moment
because it just opens you
to a different dimension
of frequency.
That would be a great
thing, or if you need help,
if you're afraid of something
or a special request,
or you need some more
confidence or assistance,
or you're confused and
you want some clarity.
Whatever.
>> Lisa: Did you get sick
at all on the pilgrimage?
>> Choquette: Well, because it
rained and it was just so cold
that there was illness
to the pilgrimage,
and I got strep throat,
and I got pretty sick.
I was really suffering
for a couple of days,
and I knew I was going down.
I knew I was going down,
and so I ended up going
to a little infirmary that
they have occasionally,
not in every town, but
occasionally for pilgrims.
And I went in and this
beautiful woman helped me,
and she gave me some medication,
and the pharmacy was open
on Sunday for two
hours, so I got it.
And I did suffer a few more
days, but after about five days,
it started the lift again, so.
>> Lisa: You had a fever?
>> Choquette: A terrible fever.
>> Lisa: And you walked?
>> Choquette: I was delusional.
>> Lisa: You kept
walking with it?
>> Choquette: Yeah.
Had to.
>> Lisa: Had to because
you had to finish it
in a certain amount of days?
>> Choquette: I had to finish
it in a certain amount of days
because I had to
teach in Vienna.
>> Lisa: Oh, oh.
>> Choquette: Yeah.
>> Lisa: I see, yeah.
>> Choquette: Yeah, I
had this period of time.
I had to keep walking.
>> Lisa: Did you set that
up for yourself on purpose?
Or you wouldn't have known.
>> Choquette: Well, I think
the fever helped burn off some
of the, you know, muck
I needed to burn off,
and maybe there was a
little past life, you know,
burn it this day going
on there as well.
Who knows.
I kind of think it
was [laughter].
>> Lisa: Wow, wow.
>> Choquette: It was
like a spiritual tour
on steroids for me.
>> Lisa: Wow.
Well I can tell it's deepened
your teachings so much more,
so let's talk about some
of the teachings and some
of the practices that you use.
What can you teach us to
use during time of sickness
or breathing or anything?
>> Choquette: Well, I'd like
to just give you a quick tool
that will help you make
contact with your higher self
and your guides,
and it is something
that we don't give ourselves.
It's called room to breathe.
And the first thing I'll
have you do is just --
I ask everybody, look, just feel
all the energy that's troubling
you, pulling on you, tugging on
you, scaring you, when you want,
excited about, whatever, and
notice that you hold it...
>> Lisa: Okay.
>> Choquette: ...in
your consciousness.
Put your tongue on the
roof of your mouth,
and exhale like you're
blowing out a birthday candle.
Completely emptying the lungs
and breathe in through the nose,
but clear into your belly,
clear into your tailbone,
and then when you let
out the sound "ah,"
open it up to hear
it click in the jaw.
>> Lisa: Ah.
>> Choquette: Ah.
And allow the energy
to travel filled
with your own spirit
from the inside out.
Allow it to travel above you
and below you, to the north,
the south, the east and the
west, in all six directions,
pushing out everything that
is not you, not of you,
not of your beautiful
spirit, and doesn't serve you.
Do this two or three times, and
it creates an energetic room
to breathe, so you're
in the clear space,
and in that space your mind
is quiet, you can begin to get
in touch with your deeper truth
and your more authentic self.
And in that space, just
put your hand on your heart
and you can get guidance.
>> Lisa: If you're in pain or
any specific pain in your life,
is that -- that's a good idea
to get a reprieve from it?
>> Choquette: Yeah,
you just need to step
and give yourself this
energetic room, above and below,
north and south, east, expand
and fill that space up with you.
>> Lisa: You get
your own little room.
>> Choquette: Yeah, room
to breathe, and it's filled
up with you and anything
that is not you, not of you,
doesn't serve you,
doesn't honor you,
doesn't lift you
up, is moved out.
>> Lisa: And is there --
are there any specific tools
that you used along the
way to really help you get
through that walking
with the fever?
>> Choquette: Yes, and this is
a tool that will help you get
in touch with your intuition.
I've used it before and
it came in very handy,
and this is a tool I call
emptying the garbage.
The reason we can't feel our
intuition is our mind is fall
of thoughts and fears
and whatever,
and so emptying the garbage is
simply to just take a breath
and start naming what
you're afraid of.
I'm afraid I won't
make the walk.
I'm afraid I'll run out of
energy before there's a caf
and I can get something to eat.
I'm afraid that I'll
run out of water.
I'm afraid I'll hurt my ankle.
I'm afraid my knee
won't make it.
I'm afraid the rain won't stop.
I'm afraid my life
is out of control.
I'm afraid I'm going lions
and tigers and bears, oh no,
you know, and eventually,
you're quiet.
Eventually you've
just emptied all that,
and then you take a breath,
and I would take a breath
and I'd say in my spirits, yes.
And the guidance would say,
you're going to be okay,
and I would get guidance,
and I would get healing,
and I would get thoughts.
And this is a tool
I taught for years.
It will always get you in
touch with your intuition.
It's not fear that
causes our problems.
Human beings will
always have fear.
We'll never not have fear.
It's hiding fear, stuffing fear.
>> Lisa: Yeah, ignoring fear.
>> Choquette: Managing, and
pretending it's not there
that takes us away
from our higher self.
>> Lisa: So you said something
really important there.
You said, "And my
guidance says."
>> Choquette: Yes.
My hand on my heart, then
I give my guidance voice.
My guidance says, and
see what comes up,
and when I was telling you that
story about losing my purse,
you know, my guidance
said, it'll be okay.
I'm afraid I won't get it.
I don't have my passport,
I don't have a ticket,
I don't have any money,
I don't know where it is.
How am I going to
get out of here?
I don't even have a dime
to call someone to help.
>> Lisa: And here watching it...
>> Choquette: And my
guidance says take a breath,
room to breathe, it'll be okay.
>> Lisa: And did they
show up right after that?
>> Choquette: Within
five minutes.
It was solved in 20.
>> Lisa: Wow.
Very interesting.
Well, what a wonderful example
and inspiration that you are
to all of us to take the time
that you took in your life
as a developed teacher, to go
out and to really take that time
to deepen yourself even more.
>> Choquette: You
know, it was important.
>> Lisa: It's important,
life changing.
>> Choquette: I'd
felt like in order
to be an authentic teacher,
I can never sit back
and say I know it all.
>> Lisa: What about an
authentic mother or wife?
>> Choquette: I feel
as an authentic human
being, we all grow.
We all face struggles.
Don't ever think that
because someone's a teacher,
they've arrived.
The human journey
keeps unfolding
and we help each
other, so when I walked
up the Camino, I was a student.
>> Lisa: Always.
>> Choquette: Life,
always, yeah.
>> Lisa: Well, and then
your relationship is healed,
and you're...
>> Choquette: Yes,
in fact my husband
and I are really finding a new
relationship with each other,
and we are realizing that
the gridlock that we got
into was the patterns we
brought in from our families,
from our own woundings, from
our own unfinished business,
from habits that we had
entered our relationship.
With this identity, we'd grown,
but our habits hadn't
matched us.
So we are now reinventing
our relationship,
and it's really wonderful.
>> Lisa: Wow, wow.
Well, Sonia Choquette, ladies
and gentlemen [laughter].
Thank you...
>> Choquette: I'm so grateful.
>> Lisa: ...so much
for sharing your story,
your fascinating story.
>> Choquette: Thank you.
>> Lisa: Thank you for being
here and being an inspiration
to all of us, and if you'd
like to watch my replay
of the interview
with Sonia Choquette,
you can go to Gaiam TV.com
and you can share it
with your friends.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]